Well again this video is going to be a problem and solution type video where the problem as I see it
at the moment is I can run over an extra weapon and my plan ends up holding multiple weapons which is
kind of cool until you get to the point where you've got 10 weapons and then you look like you're playing
kind of Mario DiMasi with all these things hanging off you.
So we're going to resolve that.
First of all what I'd like to do is just create a second weapon pickup so one for the bow and to set
our structure here so we're using prefab variance.
He's a little mini challenge for you if you think you know how to do that then go ahead and create a
route pickup and then a sword and a bow variant from the pick up.
So take on that challenge.
Otherwise we can do this together.
I'm going to start by let's see.
I'll start by renaming this to be route pick up and within my route pick up jump into my prefab here.
I'm going to delete the weapon prefab so we don't have any actual mesh sitting in there.
We've got a sphere collider and a trigger.
That's all good.
The weapon itself I will just switch to unarmed as my route.
So there kind of is not really a weapon at this point which is fine.
Why bother making prefabs when it's also simple.
Well in the future we might want to add Santa Fe X or particle effects or other cool things to our pick
ups.
We don't have to go and add all of them individually we can just add them to the route.
So right click Create.
And where are we prefab variant more recreate our sword pick up.
Excellent double click on that as we did before find the sword heads in Sinti prefabs down the bottom
drag the sword underneath the sword pick up check that we have the sword zeroed Yep 0 0 0 I'm going
to change the rotation to ninety so it's kind of lying flat on the ground and then let's see how it
fits within the collider not so well so I need to move the weapon a little bit backwards on this access
to that there it looks like a little bit backwards further to about there.
So it's sitting roughly in the middle of my my sphere quite cool.
OK so jump out of that will just do a little bit of sanity check to make sure that worked properly.
And I've just noticed while editing my video that I forgot to delete my previous sword pick up that's
now sitting in my scene just with the route pick up so it's lost its mesh so make sure you delete your
old pickups so that they're not going to get in the way and be little invisible death traps and scroll
down to pickups drop the sword pick up into our scene run over the sword pick up I run run run.
Beep beep beep.
One thing we do need to put in our pickups is a little bit of that worked but it didn't go into the
hand because I forgot to tell it that it is a sword.
So there we are just there.
That should work sword.
Excellent.
One last check.
So don't lead you down a dead end run run run run.
And also I and it becomes huge when we pick it up.
I love it.
Now let's create our bow again right click on root create prefab variant called bow pick up Oh I was
in the middle of saying one thing that would be really cool is to add a little bit of light a little
bit of sparkle on the pickup so you can see them in the world and you know exactly ah there's a pickup
because they're a little bit disappearing into our world at the moment but I will do that later for
now I need to grab my bow asset which should be under Kim def TV assets I believe simple bow prefab
drag that underneath bow pick up excellent double click right click reset that as we did in the past.
Okay.
I know this is covering territory again but should be pretty straightforward rotate 90 laying flat.
Good.
Done.
Excellent.
Just make sure it's sitting in the middle.
It's not Rupert.
There we go in the middle of our pick up quite the middle still on this a couple of times.
There we go OK look shop while we're here make sure we say that this is a beaut.
It's the bow with the blue projectile and back into our game drop one of these into the scene.
Find our pickups bow pick up drop it into the scene.
Okay.
I was going to put these a little bit more where I can see them bit easier probably make them bigger
which should probably put them on stuff on top of stuff soon we'll add a little bit of set dressing
to our world and make it a little bit spiffy.
But just doing functionality at this point in time.
So next I'll click on the player re turned the player to default weapon being unarmed.
Click on play.
Okay run run run run.
Pick up the sword blowing huge pick out the bow.
Yeah.
Okay.
So we can pick things up as intended.
Great.
Just gonna apply this one back to the prefab apply overwriting preferred player.
Okay great.
Now let's go have a look at our scripts.
We'll have a look at our weapon script combat and weapon.
This is where we need to make some changes now within our weapon class here when we spawn.
The first thing we want to do is to destroy the old weapon.
If we have an old weapon so really making a new method that would be destroy old weapon and then giving
it some logic to say check your right hand check your left hand and destroy whatever you find in either
of those hands.
And throughout this we're gonna be using a string reference to weapon because we'll be using the Find
method and the fine is looking for a string reference find and then something.
And so instead of having to have a string references scattered throughout our code here which gets a
little bit messy and clunky I'm going to use a concept so const string weapon name equals weapon semicolon.
That way we can be just using weapon name it's a nicer cleaner way for us to be changing things or accessing
this particular string reference that we have here.
Okay.
Sorry it all makes sense if that doesn't if you ever use that technique before it makes sense in a moment
under spawn we will call our method that we haven't created just yet destroy old weapon and we need
to be passing in right hand and left hand so that we can check those two.
That's great.
And then after we instantiate.
Well actually when we instantiate we want to instantiate as a game object so that we have a reference
that we can access.
So game objects will add this in front of instantiate we will call this weapon and that will equal our
instantiation and then we are going to say weapon.
Name equals what micro challenge for you here equals weapon.
Name one about easy and micro challenges I suspect.
Okay.
That's cool.
Now copy Maya destroy old weapon or just extract it as a method.
I'm gonna copy it and type out private void destroy old weapon.
We need to require the arguments of right hand and left hand.
So transform right hand transform left hand and then we're going to check in both of the hands.
So first of all we will create a variable which will call old weapon could call all weapon or previous
weapon or current weapon.
I want to destroy and this will be of type trance form.
We just need to know where it is or what it is like.
Yes there is one and that we will define as right hand dot find because we're looking in the right hand
and we're trying to find a particular string reference string reference is weapon name that we've nicely
turned into our const variable up the top.
Okay so we're looking for is there something in the right hand.
Now if old weapon that we've just looked in our right hand.
If old weapon is no.
If there's no weapon in our right hand basically then what we want to do is old weapon now equals what.
What's it going to equal if it's not the right hand it's going to equal left hand don't find weapon
name and then if old weapon is again equal to no then we want to return.
Nothing to do here.
We don't have a weapon.
Nothing to be destroyed.
All is well.
However if we have found a weapon then what we want to say is destroy old weapon dart game object.
So essentially if we find a game object in the right hand you know that's a weapon in the right hand
or in the left hand.
Then we destroy it.
Now there's one little technicality.
I won't take you through the debugging of this.
The pain of trying to hunt down and make this make this bug appear.
But because there's a little bit of an order issue or a frame issue or when things get cold we need
to change the name from weapon for this old weapon that we're destroying.
So at this point right before we destroy we're going to say old weapon name equals destroying all right.
This in capitals is very clear.
And essentially that's going to make sure that we don't have an issue where we've picked up a new weapon
and we are.
There's a confusion around is that the new weapon that we just picked up a second ago or is it the old
weapon that we already had in our hands so we then destroy old weapon we are going to find that old
weapon rename it to destroying and then that will allow us to destroy the old weapon without having
confusion over the naming the new one being named weapon and so on such as one of those things that
we found through our play testing.
We get a bit of an issue if we don't rename it right before we destroy it.
So let's save all that up.
There's the code will jump back into unity see if this works we've got our two weapons.
We start off with no weapon I believe unarmed.
Okay let's run over the first weapon.
Yes we pick up a sword run over the second weapon yes that works we'll see if we can shoot run over
here shoot a few times bound bound and success.
I think every guy is so great work and I'll see you in the next video.